xipd - X11 Idle Presence Daemon

The Elvin presence protocol is used to inform colleagues and friend of
your presence at a particular location, and optionally, the task that
currently occupies you.  This is particularly useful for
geographically distributed teams, giving an indication of colleagues'
activities and availability using very low bandwidth.

This program is used to monitor activity on an X11 (mostly)
workstation.  Configured with a timeout period, it will announce times
when that period elapses without keyboard or mouse activity.
Naturally, it also announces subsequent resumption of keyboard or
mouse activty.

It can function in two modes: as a complete presence client, or as an
adjunct to another presence client, supplying activity information to
augment the task information provided manually by the owner.

xipd uses multiple methods to obtain the activity information from the
workstation:

- The simplest, and most reliable, works only for GNU/Linux systems --
  it periodically checks /proc/interrupts, and if the interrupt count
  for the keyboard (int1) or the mouse (int12) have not changed, the
  machine is considered idle, or, 

- If the X display has the DPMS extension available, and enabled, we
  periodically query the state of the monitor.  If it is in any of the
  non-On states (Standby, Suspend, Off) then the machine is considered
  idle, or,

- If the X display has the MIT Screen-Saver extension available, we
  ask it to inform us when it starts and stops the screen saver, or,

- If the old built-in X screen saver is active, we periodically poll
  its idle status.

If none of these methods are available, the program will fail to
start.

xipd must be started specifying one of its two modes.

In standalone mode, each instance of xipd is configured with the name
of the person whose presence it is monitoring, the person's default
group, and a location, describing the machine on which it is running.
It can optionally take a list of groups in which the monitored person
is a member.

   -e elvin://server.example.com
   -S scope
   -h
   -v
   
   -s          (standalone)
   -u user     (person)
   -D domain   (default group)
   -g groups   (comma separated list of group names)
   -l location


By default, it announces the person's presence like:

   Presence-Info: "update"
   Presence-Protocol: 1000
   Client-Id: "58cdb57f-5f91-4778-8cc6-92029818f599"
   User: "person@group"
   Status: online | unavailable?
   Status-Text: location
   Status-Duration: time in this state
   Groups: "|group|group|"

      
In augmentation mode, the function of xipd is to determine the level
of activity at the host workstation, and forward that info to another
presence client.  To do this, it uses a private notification format,
to which the presence client may subscribe.

In this mode, the xipd is configured with the unique name of the user
(user@domain) and a location string representing the monitored
machine.

   -u user
   -D domain
   -l location

The notification format

   activity.0x1.org: 1000
   User: "user@domain"
   Location: "location"
   State: "active" | "inactive"


   
